# Dirty Data Project

## Introduction

This project consists of tasks that aim to test approaches to data wrangling and cleaning. Each task has its own analysis document which answers various 
questions using cleaned data obtained by programmatically processing the raw 
data.

Two tasks were chosen:

* Task 1 - Decathlon Data
* Task 4 - Halloween Candy Data

## Languages

The code is written in `R` and both tasks contain `RStudio .Rproj` files.

## How to run

Both tasks require that a cleaning script is run prior to attempting to run the 
analysis

The cleaning script will be found at
`data_cleaning_scripts/cleaning.R`

Open the `RStudio .Rproj` and run `cleaning.R`. This script will generate new 
clean CSV data files in the `clean_data` folder. If this step has completed 
successfully open the relevant task analysis `.Rmd` file in the `documentation_and_analysis` folder.

## Data used

CodeClan provided test data to students but due to file size concerns the 
original source data is not included in this repository for task 4. Similarly 
the clean data generated by the cleaning script is not uploaded but can be generated from the code.

CodeClan staff can find the source data files in CodeClan repository 
`dr22_classnotes/week_03/day_5/dirty_data_project_raw_data/candy_ranking_data`

For those outside CodeClan the data can be obtained from the following sources

### Task 1 - Decathlon
[decathlon: Performance in decathlon (data)](https://rdrr.io/github/husson/FactoMineR/man/decathlon.html).  
Department of statistics and computer science, Agrocampus Rennes

N.B. A copy of this file is in `task1/raw_data/decathlon.rds`

### Task 4 - Halloween Candy

[So Much Candy Data, Seriously](https://www.scq.ubc.ca/so-much-candy-data-seriously/). 
University of British Columbia

N.B. Before attempting to run any cleaning/analysis scripts the three source 
data files required should be copied to folder `task4/raw_data`. Full details in the analysis document.

## Packages
The following R packages are required to run the code. The version numbers used 
at the time of the original project are shown.

### Task 1

| Package   | Version used for analysis |
| --------- | ------------------------- |
| `janitor`   | "2.2.0" |
| `tidyverse` | "2.0.0" |

### Task 4
| Package   | Version used for analysis |
| --------- | ------------------------- |
| `assertr` | "3.0.0" |
| `here` | "1.0.1" |
| `readxl` | "1.4.3" |
| `tidyverse` | "2.0.0" |
